README.md, before:

# Testing Cloud Postgres Performance

This repository contains the code for setting up various cloud resources across
different cloud providers (DigitalOcean, AWS, GCP) to run postgres tests
and compare how much difference in performances there are.

## Result of Load Tests

The results of running these test are published as a blog post [here](https://blog.perfects.engineering/cloud_postgres_performance_1).


## Running the tests for yourself

### Requirements

You need to have the following tools installed on your local machine:

- terraform
- ansible
- make

Also, you'll need to be authenticated to the various cloud providers.

**DigitalOcean**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>
  
  You'll need an api token and have it exported as an environment variable named `TF_VAR_do_token`.
</details>

**Google Cloud**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  The straightforward approach to authenticate is using `gcloud`.
  ```sh
  gcloud auth application-default login
  ```

  If you don't have gcloud install it from [here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install).

  Also, if your google cloud project is new, you'll need to enable the following APIs:

  ```sh
  gcloud services enable compute.googleapis.com
  gcloud services enable sqladmin.googleapis.com
  gcloud services enable servicenetworking.googleapis.com
  ```
</details>

**AWS**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  See the various ways you can authenticate AWS [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).
  The straightforward way will be to create an Access Token (ID and Secret) for a user with 
  enough permissions to provision EC2 and RDS instances and export them as environment variables:

  ```sh
  export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<<access_key_id>>"
  export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<<access_key_secret>>"
  ```
</details>

**Azure**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  Follow the appropriate instruction on the [Azure Website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to install the CLI.

  After the `az` CLI tool has been installed, run the following command to authenticate:

  ```sh
  az login
  ```
</details>

### Setting up Resources

This uses terraform to provision the respective cloud providers resources.
Depending on which cloud provider you want to test, export a `PROVIDER` environment variable first.
The possible values are `digitalocean`(default), `gcp`,`aws` & `azure`. For example:

```sh
export PROVIDER=gcp
```

<details>
  <summary>Optional Init Instructions</summary>

  If this is your first time running any terraform command for your provider, then you need to run:
  ```sh
  make tf-init
  ```
</details>

Run the following command to create those resources:

```sh
make tf-apply
```

Provide all the required variables or set them as TF_VAR_ prefixed environment variables (see env-sample.sh).

Type `yes` at the prompt after confirming that the right resources will be created.

Once the Resources have been completely set up in the particular cloud provider. Proceed to the next step.
### Running the Tests

The `tf-apply` command would have also updated the ansible configuration. Look in `playbook/hosts` and `playbook/vars.yml` to be sure.

Next, run the Ansible playbook with:

```sh
make ansible-run
```

If run successfully, the output of the pgbench tests will be in a csv file name `result/<provider>.csv`.

### Cleaning up Resources

After the process has finished running and result gotten, destroy the provisioned cloud resources with:

```sh
make tf-destroy
```

Commit message:

include bare-metal install instructions

README.md, after:

# Testing Cloud Postgres Performance

This repository contains the code for setting up various cloud resources across
different cloud providers (DigitalOcean, AWS, GCP) to run postgres tests
and compare how much difference in performances there are.

## Result of Load Tests

The results of running these test are published as a blog post [here](https://blog.perfects.engineering/cloud_postgres_performance_1).


## Running the tests for yourself

### Requirements

You need to have the following tools installed on your local machine:

- terraform
- ansible
- make

Also, you'll need to be authenticated to the various cloud providers.

**DigitalOcean**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>
  
  You'll need an api token and have it exported as an environment variable named `TF_VAR_do_token`.
</details>

**Google Cloud**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  The straightforward approach to authenticate is using `gcloud`.
  ```sh
  gcloud auth application-default login
  ```

  If you don't have gcloud install it from [here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install).

  Also, if your google cloud project is new, you'll need to enable the following APIs:

  ```sh
  gcloud services enable compute.googleapis.com
  gcloud services enable sqladmin.googleapis.com
  gcloud services enable servicenetworking.googleapis.com
  ```
</details>

**AWS**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  See the various ways you can authenticate AWS [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#authentication-and-configuration).
  The straightforward way will be to create an Access Token (ID and Secret) for a user with 
  enough permissions to provision EC2 and RDS instances and export them as environment variables:

  ```sh
  export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<<access_key_id>>"
  export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<<access_key_secret>>"
  ```
</details>

**Azure**

<details>
  <summary>Authentication Instructions</summary>

  Follow the appropriate instruction on the [Azure Website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) to install the CLI.

  After the `az` CLI tool has been installed, run the following command to authenticate:

  ```sh
  az login
  ```
</details>

### Setting up Resources

This uses terraform to provision the respective cloud providers resources.
Depending on which cloud provider you want to test, export a `PROVIDER` environment variable first.
The possible values are `digitalocean`(default), `gcp`,`aws` & `azure`. For example:

```sh
export PROVIDER=gcp
```

<details>
  <summary>Optional Init Instructions</summary>

  If this is your first time running any terraform command for your provider, then you need to run:
  ```sh
  make tf-init
  ```
</details>

Run the following command to create those resources:

```sh
make tf-apply
```

Provide all the required variables or set them as TF_VAR_ prefixed environment variables (see env-sample.sh).

Type `yes` at the prompt after confirming that the right resources will be created.

Once the Resources have been completely set up in the particular cloud provider. Proceed to the next step.

### Bare Metal Database Setup

SKIP TO THE NEXT STEP IF YOU ARE NOT RUNNING THE BARE METAL (VULTR) PROVIDER OPTION.

Postgres needs to be installed on the bare metal machine.
First, update the content of [postgresql_cluster/inventory](./postgresql_cluster/inventory) file. Specifically,
update the IP address of the `[master]` and `[etcd_cluster]` sections to match that of the db_host
(which can be found in the terraform output from the previous step).

Also, update the `ansible_ssh_private_key_file` value to point to your ssh private_key file.

Next, run:

```sh
ansible-playbook postgresql_cluster/deploy_pgcluster.yml
```

Once done, the database machine should have Postgres running and ready to accept connections.

### Running the Tests

The `tf-apply` command would have also updated the ansible configuration. Look in `playbook/hosts` and `playbook/vars.yml` to be sure.

Next, run the Ansible playbook with:

```sh
make ansible-run
```

If run successfully, the output of the pgbench tests will be in a csv file name `result/<provider>.csv`.

### Cleaning up Resources

After the process has finished running and result gotten, destroy the provisioned cloud resources with:

```sh
make tf-destroy
```
